= MACSec

- IEEE 802.1AE
- hop-by-hop encryption with symmetric key cryptography
- can be used with SGT to secure the payload of the frame.



== Frame format

image::macsec.png[]



TODO

MACsec provides MAC-layer encryption over wired networks. MACsec uses
out-of-band methods for encryption keying. Required session keys are provided,
and encryption keys managed by MACsec Key Agreement (MKA) Protocol. After
successful authentication, MKA and MACsec are implemented using the 802.1x
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) framework. Host facing links (links
between network access devices and endpoint devices such as a PC or IP phone)
can only be secured using MACsec MKA encryption.

Depending on the policy assigned to the client connected to a secured port,
(access port the client is connected to requiring MACsec), a switch will accept
either MACsec or non-MACsec frames. An Integrity Check Value (ICV) encrypts and
protects MACsec frames. Frames received at the switch from the client are
decrypted and the correct ICV is calculated using the session keys provided by
MKA. If the locally calculated ICV does not match the ICV within the frame, the
frame is dropped. Any frames that the switch sends to the client over the
secured port are also encrypted and have an ICV added.

Encryption keys used by the underlying MACsec protocol are managed by the MKA
Protocol. The basic requirements of MKA are defined in 802.1x-REV. The MKA
Protocol extends 802.1x to allow peer discovery with confirmation of mutual
authentication and sharing of MACsec secret keys to protect data exchanged by
the peers.

The EAP framework implements MKA as a newly defined EAP-over-LAN (EAPOL)
packet. EAP authentication produces a master session key (MSK), shared by both
partners in the data exchange. Entering the EAP session ID generates a secure
connectivity association key name (CKN). Because the switch is the
authenticator, it is also the key server, and is responsible for selecting and
advertising a cipher suite. The switch performs this action by generating a
random 128-bit secure association key (SAK), which it sends it to the client
partner. Cisco components all support the default cipher suite Galois/Counter
Mode Advanced Encryption Standard 128 (GCM-AES-128).

The client is never a key server and can only interact with a single MKA
entity, the key server (switch). To successfully encrypt traffic, the client
must also possess the SAK. Using MKA, the switch will send the SAK to the
supplicant. To keep the SAK secure, the switch encrypts it with some additional
CAK-derived keys and the AES key wrap (RFC 3394) function. Because the
supplicant possesses the CAK, it can decrypt the key wrap and retrieve the SAK.

The packet body in an EAPOL Protocol Data Unit (PDU) is referred to as a MACsec
Key Agreement PDU (MKPDU). After key derivation and generation, the switch
sends periodic transports to the partner at a default interval of 2 seconds.
For example, if the client is connected through a Cisco phone and disconnects,
the switch will not see the connection go down and will continue to operate MKA
until 6 seconds have elapsed with no new MKPDUs received.





